All right guys so I'm here with Derek Davis he's with shared economy CPA.
He's made a bit of a little thing for himself working with people that do share economy stuff like Uber
and Airbnb.
He's got the lowdown on what you should know about your taxes what you're doing wrong with that what
you're doing right.
He can walk you through kind of the details because it's pretty confusing so.
Hey Derek thanks for doing this.
And thanks for having me on.
So tell me just a little bit about how you got into doing shared economy stuff.
Yes so I would say about May of 2014 no uber driver and I realize that you kind of have no idea what
to do about his tax situation and it was really really startling and also depressing that there's so
many kind of great tax saving opportunities that he could take with he was simply missing you know.
So yeah I quit my job in corporate America in September of 2014 and kind of never looked back from it.
Cool so how often do you work with Airbnb host.
I would actually see the bulk of our clientele.
I would say 85 percent or even the host primarily because everybody is pretty confusing.
We have a lot of clients and have listings in multiple states so the multiple state filings they have
you know they'll have a rumor to write it out with an entire home.
So you have some tricky application methods.
A lot of our clients also appreciate their home too.
So that is kind of a lot of tocks technical content that goes in to filing your tax journals and everybody
knows.
Gotcha.
Yeah I know that it's complicated from my experience.
I could guarantee that I did my taxes wrong and my airplane last year so I'll pay attention to details.
So I'm not someone to pull up to Eric's PowerPoint.
He's just going to talk through it at the very end then I'll just ask questions and we'll do it like
that.
So I work for you.
Yeah sounds good.
OK.
Awesome.
So all right guys so this is the start of his PowerPoint Here's his name what's your Web site.
So I have two companies one is a shared economy CPA dot com and the other one is try tabby dot com tries
to use a mole that will keep track of all your tax deductions for you so you don't ever have to worry
about taxes and missing out on money saving opportunities.
Cool.
All right.
So I'll start right here and then just let me know when you want to go next slide.
OK.
So yeah so just to briefly cover 299 is a tax payment between two third parties.
So this is the tax form that you are getting from B and B what really does is they send a one time line
to you as well as 1099 to the IRS.
So it's really important that that whatever you're reporting on your tax forms will line up directly
with what's reporting what's being reported on there.
And then you die.
So quick little snippet to know is what's shown in your dashboard is that of these fees.
And what is shown on your 10:49 is the total amount.
So you also want to deduct that commission amount that everybody is taking.
So on the next slide.
So yes this is just kind of a review of the tax form.
You know it clearly shows who you are who paid you.
So for example is this the end or B and B and then also now those paid in like I said in the previous
slides really make sure that both those numbers line up are likely because the IRS will do it so quickly
we can tie that to the two figures.
And if they don't match you will be you'll be receiving the letter.
OK so is on the next slide.
Is that the biggest audit trigger you've seen as if the 10:19 just doesn't match the number you claim
on your own taxes.
Yeah.
It's almost an automated chalk figure.
So it's usually it's you know if it's if it's showing less than what's on the menu.
Generally speaking if you're reporting a lot more than that was reported on the then obviously you're
reporting more incomes of that that's good for errors.
And so the tonight 9:00 does that that gets automatically filed with the IRS.
Right you're just getting a copy from Eric BND correct.
Copies.
Yeah.
From everybody's perspective two copies of it's M-L OK.
Gotcha.
So this is kind of one of the biggest hurdles that we work with for every client.
And in this kind of determines what is material participation and whether or not are poor on Schedule
C or scheduled the Schedule C is an active income and that means like it's like if you're in if you're
right writer you'd want to put all your income on a schedule C schedule either for passive income you
know.
Historically speaking when you see you go Anscar on schedule eases rental income.
If you own your home and your you have a full time rental client you don't put it on there.
And if you have you know passive income so stocks bonds things that you don't you know you don't actively
engage in but you're saving money from
oh so what does how does that actually work with like Air B and B management companies like pelo which
used to be air and B if you use one of those services and they handle all of your management and bookings
and everything like that.
Is that a good enough reason to claim that it's passive.
Yeah so.
So you know really feel like I've got on situation but if you have a management company in all your
area B and B say you are in Europe and you do have an area of your property in New York and you have
someone willing to do it for you and all you do is receive the paycheck that would generally be considered
positive.
OK.
Which is scheduled to be done.
If that's the case you're European and you have an American property you're going to end up paying taxes
to the American government on those on the income of that property right.
Yeah it also really depends on the jurisdiction you're in.
Everything we know for Cisco for example is starting to collect occupancy tax but that's about as of
today's date.
And you know this may or may not be relevant a year from now.
You know the tax code is always cheering me on.
And they're they're they're constantly kind of do.
So as of today you know some additional taxes being paid or don't.
And so I have one actually question that I know is relevant to a lot of people that my course is that.
So what happens if you're American you have a property and you're traveling abroad renting it out because
I do that frequently.
But the reason why I love doing that is because of the tax exempt 90 K on your income.
If you are brought over I think it's like nine months you get to write off a certain amount off your
income.
How does that play with your Airbnb property yeah that's really good question.
And you know I don't really know off the top of my head I would have to look into that.
I do know that with the words of foreign tax credit I believe it's it's it's the exemption is with regards
to income that is sourced outside the U.S. But you're telling me activity source within you.
So I would I would think that you would still do that that the the exemption wouldn't apply because
your source in income within the U.S..
But like I said before I would have to double check.
I don't know for certain.
OK cool.
Next time
so kind of the biggest kind of overview is with an SEC schedule see you you're paying self-employment
tax and schedule e you're not in kind of the real one thing that we look for to determine whether it's
a Schedule C or scheduled activity is whether you provide substandard services or not.
So you know do you clean the guest room every night or every morning after after they've slept in it.
You know do you provide food.
You provide no additional services beyond just renting out your room.
And if you do.
Generally speaking you may be considered Schedule C actually.
But like I said before you know taxes are very fact specific industry so.
So there's virtually no blanket answer I can I can give for this.
So this is kind of just a hypothetical example.
If you are on schedule C for your B and B income and you'll see that you go approximately and this is
assuming that you made 35000 young income and you are a single filer and this is for f y.
Fiscal year 2014.
So you know approximately five thousand self-employment tax as was another 3000 in personal income tax
so.
So the total taxes that you're paying is a little south of $8000.
And this is assuming that you know business expenses are going on on the next slide.
It's really really important for all airbed in the homes to keep really clear cut and thorough of business
expenses because as you can see in the two scenarios scenario one you know you're not paying you know
keeping track of business expenses is new to you.
Arguably charged business expenses.
So you know it's really important to keep track of business expenses because it will greatly reduce
the amount of taxes that you go.
So I was going to say in your experience is this scenario to a is that realistic that you would have
two thirds of your income claimable as expenses.
You know it really really depends on the timing of the business.
You know if you're just starting out a business this could be this could be somewhat true because you're
carrying a lot of expenses that you wouldn't normally include as it's your first year of business.
But maybe if you're more mature and you're just collecting more revenue then yes this may not be as
common per say but it well depends on on the type of business you're engaging in as well as the lifecycle
of the company.
Yeah.
So one of the things I've noticed with everybody is that the different scene in our being in a vacation
rental property.
Is that a vacation rental property everything you're buying for it is specifically for the apartments.
Or when you put up a RBO typically people then go out and spend thousands of dollars on furniture or
is Airbnb here using assets that you already had for personal uses.
So how do you.
Is it hard for you to distinguish the line between hey did you buy your couch or the couch cover for
Air B and B or did you buy that for yourself and then you discovered Airbnb.
Yeah.
Yeah that's a good question and I think kind of the best analogy to draw to that is that you know I
think one of the most overlooked tax deductions for an area in the host is their cell phone bill.
So say for example you're always talking to potential hosts you're you know you always get pinged when
and when they want to register or you know say so you know say for example 40 percent of your cell phone
bill is used for talking to one potential guest or your converse or conversely said you're you're using
your phone 40 percent of the time to talk to potential guests.
So you know you wanted to talk 40 percent of your of your monthly or annual bill.
How specific do you have to get when it comes to recording stuff like that because I know that I would
be a total pain if you had to record every single phone call that was being be related and how every
single one those text message related.
I mean how specific is the IRS when they audit you.
You know it definitely depends on the age and it's an agent Agent basis.
And you know the better documentation you can show in the clear documentation you can show.
And this is personally speaking I think the quicker they'll they'll come to a conclusion.
But you know if you have a bunch of expenses and you can you know support.
It's really not going to help your case.
So is going on the next slide.
So examples of business expenses you have food for for you guys.
You know you have yourself on your computer if you drive to the store you know to buy goods or you know
bedding or any sort of shoots for your TV host.
You know you can you can deduct the mileage.
Generally speaking for everything because the standard mileage might be more beneficial but if you have
really clear records the actual cost indefinite copyright awful law.
You know it's important to note that the home office deduction as well as if you're deducting your rent
or your mortgage it's important to note that according to a 2006 tax court really that you're entering
the room has to be exclusively used for business.
So what I mean by that is that if you have a three bedroom apartment that you run out one of the bedrooms
exclusively that can be considered deductible.
However if you have a room or your room that you will run out on occasion when you go out of town that
that cannot be considered deductible because it's not exclusively listed.
It's just one thing to know.
And then other costs related to your everyday property you want into.
Yes sir can you give us an example of one like the most commonly overlooked deduction and into what's
an inappropriate deduction.
So inappropriate deduction would be.
I mean anything that doesn't really to be in the business so if you are going to Vegas and try to write
off table services something are going to fly with the IRS because the that that in no way pertains
to everybody but I think it commonly overlooked induction persons because when you were talking to potentially
host over over drinks or dinner or you meet up with a friend who's thinking about to intervene and they
wanted to pick your brain about it.
And I think what I've realized is that a lot of the urban in the hosts that I met are really passionate
about being they love to talk about their friends and you know they live want to kind of tell stories
about how they are able to supplement their income and so you know when you have a business meeting
and specifically for being be you know make sure to keep track of that.
The only important thing to kind of keep in the back of your mind is deducted as a meal entertainment
expense by our guests.
You have to kind of clearly show what was expected business outcome of that.
So for example if you're going to meet up with a friend and talk about Air B and B the potential business
outcome will be that you're hoping to get them as a host and you don't have to keep minutes of that
conversation do you.
You don't have to keep minutes you have to use up to clearly say who was with you you know in that business
meeting.
Is it like one of those cases.
I know that when you want to deduct business meals it's like you can take a cab to the restaurant and
because that's to the restaurant you can deduct that.
But if you take a cab backwards to your place you would have returned home anyway so you can't deduct
that.
Is that the same kind of thing.
That I really pretty about that in particular.
So I certainly can't comment on that but I do know that you know you can't write off your mileage going
to from your your work.
So that may be kind of relevant but I always got a question which is why it is important to bring up
is can I write off my trip to and from work.
And the answer is no.
Q So if I take out a guest I have a gas and I take them out for lunch or coffee or something like that.
Is that deductible.
Well the purpose of the lunch or coffee.
I guess it just be part of like the hospitality service because therapy is all about being the best
hosts you can possibly be.
Yes.
So if you are you know your host in conjunction with your baby listin and you know say for example your
expected bad business outcome is that you want them to come stay more at your your place if they come
back into town and that can be considered deductible.
OK.
How do you handle like deductions on say if you have a property that you rent or you have a mortgage.
So say you rent it out for an entire month right.
And you say this month I'm exclusively renting it out.
What happens then when you go and deduct your rent or your mortgage can you only did Doc that the quantity
or like your rent or your mortgage for the days that it's rented out within that month or can you actually
deduct the entire month because you set it aside.
So according to the IRS or excuse me according to a 2006 tax court ruling they hide a bed and breakfast.
And what the host did was that they had this bedroom that I think 20 percent of the time it was rented
out.
And then the other 80 percent it wasn't and they disallowed all of the all the proportionate expense
on that property.
So for your example you're running you out one twelfth of the year in line with that tax court ruling
they wouldn't allow you the dog and both of the.
All right.